# PQC-Flaq-Qubit-Compiler

## Description
This project was done as part of an Aalto Univeristy's course called Practical Quantum Computing during spring/summer of 2023. 

Here's a short description of the project. The Flag Qubit method was first implemented by Rui Chao and Ben W. Reichardt for quantum error correction. They devised error-correction procedures that use only two auxiliary qubits and are fault-tolerant. The procedures rely on the addition of "flags" to identify errors that can contribute to correlated data errors. They function for multiple distance-three codes[1].And this concept was expanded to include all distance and stabilizer codes [2],[3]

But in this attempt, inspired by the Flaq Qubit method, we would like to tackle a different issue. Using ancilla qubits, we wish to determine which portion of the circuits is most "vulnerable," meaning that errors can propagate to multiple locations (qubits) and produce a different output. A quantum circuit is decomposable into ICM (initialization, CNOTs, and measurements) form, which is related to quantum graph state. As a means of implementing native ICM circuits on NISQ devices, it may be advantageous to indicate if there are positions in the circuit that are less fault-tolerant (errors cascade uncontrollably).This project investigates the systematic addition of flag qubits to ICM circuits generated by Jabalizer [4]. Errors are (probabilistic) single and two qubit Pauli gates. Flags will be added either by a heuristic or randomly to the original circuit, the circuit will be simulated by Stim and error statistics will be collected.

### Goals:
A. Use Jabalizer (https://github.com/QSI-BAQS/Jabalizer.jl)to export ICM circuits into Stim (https://github.com/quantumlib/Stim). 
B. Implement a random method to add a specified number of ancillae/flags and entangle them (randomly) to the ICM circuit. Evaluate the fault-tolerance of the resulting circuit by showing a relation between the value of the flags and the correctness of the outputs.
C.Implement a heuristic which is converging faster than the solution in B. What is the optimum (lowest you can achieve) number of flags necessary to detect the maximum number of errors?

### Criteria for passing:
Pass: A and B
Full Points: C


## References
1.Rui Chao, Ben W. Reichardt, "Quantum error correction with only two extra qubits",Phys. Rev. Lett. 121, 050502 (2018), Link: arXiv:1705.02329.

2.Rui Chao, Ben W. Reichardt, "Flag fault-tolerant error correction for any stabilizer code",	PRX Quantum 1, 010302 (2020), Link: arXiv:1912.09549.

3.Christopher Chamberland, Michael E. Beverland,"Flag fault-tolerant error correction with arbitrary distance codes", Quantum 2, 53 (2018), Link: arXiv:1708.02246.

4.Madhav Krishnan Vijayan, Alexandru Paler, Jason Gavriel, Casey R. Myers, Peter P. Rohde, Simon J. Devitt, "Compilation of algorithm-specific graph states for quantum circuits", Link: arXiv:2209.07345.
